README.md, before:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Abilaash

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/abilaash01">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Abilaash%20U-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin">
  </a>
  <a href="mailto:abilaash.u001@gmail.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-Contact%20Me-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail">
  </a>
  <a href="https://abilaashportfolio.netlify.app">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Portfolio-View-green?style=for-the-badge&logo=firefox-browser">
  </a>
  <a href="https://x.com/Abi__0001">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-X-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=x">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/@abilaashuthayachandran5318">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/YouTube-Subscribe-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube">
  </a>
</p>

---

### 💻 Computer Engineer | Embedded Systems & Firmware

I specialize in embedded systems and firmware development, with a focus on AI and machine learning integration on edge and resource-constrained devices.

My work spans bare-metal and embedded Linux systems, low-level firmware, and end-to-end embedded AI pipelines—from real-time sensor acquisition to optimized ML inference running close to the hardware.

I am particularly interested in building predictable, efficient systems that combine traditional embedded control logic with ML-driven perception and decision-making for IoT, robotics, and intelligent devices.

---

## 🧠 Programming Languages

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/c/c-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/cplusplus/cplusplus-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/python/python-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/typescript/typescript-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/html5/html5-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/css3/css3-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/bash/bash-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/powershell/powershell-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/php/php-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- Rust (official logo, more reliable than Devicon) -->
  <img src="https://www.rust-lang.org/logos/rust-logo-512x512.png" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## 🛠️ Embedded Tools & IDEs

<p align="left">
  <!-- Arduino IDE -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/arduino/arduino-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- CMake (commonly paired with STM32 / embedded builds) -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/cmake/cmake-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- Embedded C toolchain / debugging proxy -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/c/c-original.svg" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## 🤖 AI & Machine Learning

<p align="left">
  <!-- OpenCV --> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/opencv/opencv-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <!-- TensorFlow -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/tensorflow/tensorflow-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <!-- PyTorch -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/pytorch/pytorch-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <!-- NumPy -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/numpy/numpy-original.svg" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## 🧰 Platforms & Operating Systems

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/linux/linux-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/raspberrypi/raspberrypi-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- Docker (embedded Linux / tooling relevance) -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/docker/docker-original.svg" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## 🌐 Web & Backend Technologies

<p align="left">
  <!-- Frontend -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/react/react-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nextjs/nextjs-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/tailwindcss/tailwindcss-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- Backend -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/express/express-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- Database -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/postgresql/postgresql-original.svg" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## ⚙️ DevOps, Tooling & Automation

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/git/git-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/docker/docker-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/github/github-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/githubactions/githubactions-original.svg" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## 🔌 Embedded & Systems Concepts

- ARM Cortex-M/A/R Architectures
- Bare-metal and RTOS-based development
- GPIO, SPI, I²C, UART, timers, interrupts
- Memory-mapped I/O and register-level programming
- Boot processes and system initialization
- Multithreading, concurrency, synchronization
- Embedded Linux internals
- Hardware–software integration

---

## 🤖 AI, ML & Edge Inference

- OpenCV-based real-time vision pipelines
- Lightweight ML models for embedded deployment
- Model optimization techniques (quantization, reduced precision)
- Edge inference on Raspberry Pi–class hardware
- Integration of ML inference with firmware control and system logic
- Core ML algorithms such as linear regression and gradient descent

---

## 🧪 Selected Projects

### Embedded ASL Translation System (Capstone)
- Designed a Raspberry Pi–based embedded system for real-time sign language translation
- Integrated sensors and peripherals via SPI under embedded Linux
- Implemented low-latency gesture recognition using OpenCV and ML models

### Custom 64-bit Operating System Kernel
- Built a minimal OS kernel in C++ and Assembly
- Implemented bootstrapping, memory management, interrupts, and basic I/O
- Validated system behavior in a virtualized environment

### Multithreaded Server (Rust)
- Developed a concurrent server emphasizing correctness and thread safety
- Applied low-level synchronization primitives for performance and reliability

*(More details available in pinned repositories)*

---

## 🎓 Education

**BASc in Computer Engineering (Co-op)**  
University of Ottawa — *cum laude*

Relevant coursework:
- Embedded Systems & Microcontrollers
- Computer Architecture
- Operating Systems
- Digital Systems
- Computer Network Design
- Real-Time Systems Design

---

## 💡 Engineering Interests

- Writing **efficient, predictable, and maintainable firmware**
- Understanding systems from **silicon to software**
- Debugging complex hardware–software interactions
- Building technology that interacts with the physical world

---

⚡ *Always learning. Always building. Especially close to the hardware.*

Commit message:

Revise README to reflect software development expertise
Updated professional title and description to reflect a broader focus on software development, including backend and full-stack experience. Enhanced clarity on interests and skills related to system design and integration.

README.md, after:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Abilaash

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/abilaash01">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Abilaash%20U-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin">
  </a>
  <a href="mailto:abilaash.u001@gmail.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-Contact%20Me-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail">
  </a>
  <a href="https://abilaashportfolio.netlify.app">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Portfolio-View-green?style=for-the-badge&logo=firefox-browser">
  </a>
  <a href="https://x.com/Abi__0001">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-X-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=x">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/@abilaashuthayachandran5318">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/YouTube-Subscribe-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube">
  </a>
</p>

---

### 💻 Computer Engineer | Embedded Systems & Software Developer

I’m a software developer with experience in backend, full-stack, and embedded systems. I build reliable applications and embedded firmware, working with Python, C/C++, Node.js, and SQL.

I enjoy designing end-to-end systems—from APIs and databases to real-time sensor acquisition and optimized ML inference on edge devices. My work combines traditional embedded control with software engineering practices like CI/CD, testing, and cloud integration.

I’m passionate about creating efficient, maintainable systems that bridge hardware and software, from IoT and robotics to intelligent devices.

---

## 🧠 Programming Languages

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/c/c-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/cplusplus/cplusplus-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/python/python-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/typescript/typescript-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/html5/html5-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/css3/css3-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/bash/bash-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/powershell/powershell-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/php/php-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- Rust (official logo, more reliable than Devicon) -->
  <img src="https://www.rust-lang.org/logos/rust-logo-512x512.png" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## 🛠️ Embedded Tools & IDEs

<p align="left">
  <!-- Arduino IDE -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/arduino/arduino-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- CMake (commonly paired with STM32 / embedded builds) -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/cmake/cmake-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- Embedded C toolchain / debugging proxy -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/c/c-original.svg" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## 🤖 AI & Machine Learning

<p align="left">
  <!-- OpenCV --> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/opencv/opencv-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <!-- TensorFlow -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/tensorflow/tensorflow-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <!-- PyTorch -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/pytorch/pytorch-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <!-- NumPy -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/numpy/numpy-original.svg" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## 🧰 Platforms & Operating Systems

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/linux/linux-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/raspberrypi/raspberrypi-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- Docker (embedded Linux / tooling relevance) -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/docker/docker-original.svg" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## 🌐 Web & Backend Technologies

<p align="left">
  <!-- Frontend -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/react/react-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nextjs/nextjs-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/tailwindcss/tailwindcss-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- Backend -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/express/express-original.svg" width="48"/>

  <!-- Database -->
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/postgresql/postgresql-original.svg" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## ⚙️ DevOps, Tooling & Automation

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/git/git-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/docker/docker-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/github/github-original.svg" width="48"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/githubactions/githubactions-original.svg" width="48"/>
</p>

---

## 🔌 Embedded & Systems Concepts

- ARM Cortex-M/A/R Architectures
- Bare-metal and RTOS-based development
- GPIO, SPI, I²C, UART, timers, interrupts
- Memory-mapped I/O and register-level programming
- Boot processes and system initialization
- Multithreading, concurrency, synchronization
- Embedded Linux internals
- Hardware–software integration

---

## 🤖 AI, ML & Edge Inference

- OpenCV-based real-time vision pipelines
- Lightweight ML models for embedded deployment
- Model optimization techniques (quantization, reduced precision)
- Edge inference on Raspberry Pi–class hardware
- Integration of ML inference with firmware control and system logic
- Core ML algorithms such as linear regression and gradient descent

---

## 🧪 Selected Projects

### Embedded ASL Translation System (Capstone)
- Designed a Raspberry Pi–based embedded system for real-time sign language translation
- Integrated sensors and peripherals via SPI under embedded Linux
- Implemented low-latency gesture recognition using OpenCV and ML models

### Custom 64-bit Operating System Kernel
- Built a minimal OS kernel in C++ and Assembly
- Implemented bootstrapping, memory management, interrupts, and basic I/O
- Validated system behavior in a virtualized environment

### Multithreaded Server (Rust)
- Developed a concurrent server emphasizing correctness and thread safety
- Applied low-level synchronization primitives for performance and reliability

*(More details available in pinned repositories)*

---

## 🎓 Education

**BASc in Computer Engineering (Co-op)**  
University of Ottawa — *cum laude*

Relevant coursework:
- Embedded Systems & Microcontrollers
- Computer Architecture
- Operating Systems
- Digital Systems
- Computer Network Design
- Real-Time Systems Design

---

## 💡 Engineering Interests

- Writing **efficient, predictable, and maintainable firmware**
- Understanding systems from **silicon to software**
- Debugging complex hardware–software interactions
- Building technology that interacts with the physical world

---

⚡ *Always learning. Always building. Especially close to the hardware.*
